[MUSIC PLAYING]
STEVEN ROSS: Steven, would
you like to visit a castle.
I'm from Los Angeles.
It's like, yeah.
I guess.
As an alchemist, von
Bernus was so powerful,
during World War
II, the Nazis were
afraid to even go
into the castles.
His wife is still alive.
She's 95 years old.
When she answers the door,
she looks at me and she says,
I've been waiting for you.
REGINA MEREDITH:
Everybody does this.
All these famous people do
this as soon as they see you.
ROSS: I was kind of in shock,
and I said, we're all staying?
No.
She wants you to
stay for three days.
I open the trunk and
there's parchment
and scrolls dated 1300s, 1400s.
So when I say I could
feel these energies,
I could pick things
up from books,
I want everybody to
understand, so can they.
One does not have to go and
stay in the alchemist's castle.
It's dramatic enough
to get me on your show
to share with your audience
that anything in this world
can happen.
REGINA: There's a
world of knowledge
in books out there that most of
us will never have access to.
Fortunately, our
friend, Steven Ross,
has had a lily
gilded life when it
comes to being led to
precious and profound books
and documents.
In our last
conversation, we spoke
about his meeting
with Manly P Hall
and being given access to
his famed vault. Today,
we're going to hear the story
of Alexander von Bernus who--
he lived in Germany in
a castle, and Steven
was given access to
more than just books
when you visited his castle.
I didn't even know this story
until maybe six months ago.
You and I were talking and I
said, we have to do a show.
Because it always
essentially comes
to the same place,
the same things
that are required of us to
engage in our own lives,
but your stories are also
quirky and different.
So welcome back, Steven.
ROSS: Thank you, Regina.
And I always have to
hold something back
so I can be re-invited again.
REGINA: Oh, so this is
strategic or otherwise, we
would have done this years ago.
ROSS: Yes, it was planned.
Yes.
REGINA: So, first of all, let's
talk about the time when--
we mentioned this before--
you and I were both wandering
around Europe looking for
stories on alternative,
or particularly, energy
and color healing.
So people know this if
they've seen us before.
And we're bumping into
the same characters.
But you were there regularly
because you actually
had an office in Stuttgart where
I was just there to pick up
a few stories.
And so you-- so you had a
couple of friends that you met,
Karl and Heidi, right?
ROSS: Yes.
They were my staff,
REGINA: They were your staff.
So they said, Steven,
psst, there's this castle.
And so pick up the
story from there
and tell us what
happened as you were
on your search for
alternative healing therapies.
ROSS: Regina, let
me start by saying,
thank you for having
me as a guest today.
REGINA: Always.
I love it.
ROSS: Karl and Heidi and I
would take two-week journeys
throughout Europe investigating
healers and clinics.
So in fact, we were
going to leave on a trip,
and Heidi says to
me, Steven, would you
like to visit a castle?
I'm from Los Angeles.
It's like, yeah, the castle, OK.
So as we're driving
to this castle,
Heidi tells me she
grew up in this area.
It's the von Bernus Castle,
and Alexander von Bernus
was a very famous alchemist
who lived in the 1900s
to about 1950.
And we visit, we
come to the door,
and they say his
wife is still alive.
She's 95 years old and she
doesn't speak any English.
We'll translate.
But when she answers the door,
she looks at me and she says,
I've been waiting for you.
REGINA: Everybody does this.
All these famous people do
this as soon as they see you.
ROSS: I don't mind.
I'm very forth-- hey, I live
a very blessed, magical life.
And Karl and Heidi
look at each other,
because the Baroness von
Bernus was speaking English.
We sat down, and in this room
were floor to ceiling books,
and on a coffee table is a book
about Paracelsus from the 1600s
just sitting open there.
And I'm glancing around,
it's unbelievable
with the paintings.
They're all speaking German.
And even though
you and I traveled,
I only speak two languages,
English and Pig Latin,
so I did not understand
any of the German.
REGINA: I can Speak English
and Pig French, I guess.
ROSS: But you and I still were
able to make these journeys.
REGINA: Yeah, we were.
ROSS: So they spoke
for a couple hours,
and we were all getting
up, I saw them get up,
and as we're going
through the door,
the baroness puts her arm--
her hand on my arm.
So I look at my staff
people and they go,
she doesn't want you to go.
I said, what?
She wants you to stay.
I was kind of in shock, and
I said, we're all staying?
No.
She wants you to
stay for three days.
Now, of course,
I had my suitcase
because we're going
to be traveling.
Karl and Heidi said to me,
we will return in three days
and we will pick you up again.
The baroness says, you have full
access to the entire castle,
which was 3 stories,
and we will at least
show you where your room
is on the very top floor.
So we go up, and
there was a room
on the top floor of the castle,
and there was a trunk there.
And of course, I
was wondering, am I
allowed to open
this trunk or not?
REGINA: She said you have
access to everything.
ROSS: And what did
I do that night?
I open the trunk,
and there's parchment
and scrolls dated 1300s, 1400s.
REGINA: In Latin or German?
ROSS: In Latin, in German,
just an incredible collection
of materials.
And throughout the
castle are, again,
floor to ceiling books,
paintings of some
of the old masters in there.
It was incredible.
But I'm going to stop
there to take a breath
and not go on and on and on.
REGINA: Oh, I want
you to go on and on
because what I'm going to say--
I'll just prompt you further.
ROSS: OK
REGINA: OK, she also told
you you could have access
to his office.
Now, his office was kept
100% intact, it sounds like.
Nothing had been
touched since his death.
How long had it been
since he had died?
ROSS: He had died 30 years
before I went into the room.
But for clarity, when Karl
and Heidi were to pick me up,
they did pick me up,
we were walking out,
and once again, the baroness
put her hand on my arm,
and I thought another
three or four days,
but she told them she wanted me
at that time to go follow her.
And I followed her down
corridors, hallways,
she takes out a big key--
REGINA: Hidden passageways.
ROSS: Exactly.
REGINA: You mean one
of those huge ones
you see in the movies?
ROSS: A big key.
REGINA: Yeah.
ROSS: And unlocks this room,
and that was his office.
No other person had been in that
room other than the baroness
since her husband had died.
And I'm just looking around.
Karl and Heidi didn't say,
she's taking you to the office,
they just said, she
wants you to go with her.
And I did, because
I always follow
what women tell me to do.
REGINA: Of course you do.
ROSS: There you go.
REGINA: You're a good son.
ROSS: I sat there.
She was meditating.
I meditated.
Just sat quietly.
About 15 minutes later,
she touched me again
and we walked out.
And driving home, Heidi
says, Steve, that is amazing.
Nobody has ever been in that
room other than the two.
REGINA: What did you absorb?
We have a lot of other
things to absorb here you're
going to tell us about, but what
did you absorb in that room?
ROSS: Well, in
that room, I could
feel the energy, which
was very profound,
because as an alchemist,
von Bernus was
so powerful that
during World War II,
Jewish citizens would
be in the castle
and the Nazis were
afraid to even mess--
REGINA: With him.
ROSS: With Alexander von
Bernus or go into the castle.
So that was his zone.
It was very powerful
because the three days
before that final
time in his office,
I was getting downloads
all the time, the energy.
I was to find out that
von Bernus had access
to all of Goethe's library,
who is also very famous,
and Paracelsus material,
and that they had found--
people after von
Bernus had left--
special diaries
that von Bernus had
written in of Paracelsian
formulas and old manuscripts
handed down for years
that this alchemist had.
And being a sensitive type,
I just was picking up,
there is a lot going on
in here, and I would just
wander through.
And this hasn't always
happened in my life,
but I would touch
some of the books that
were in other languages, and
I could feel the essence.
REGINA: Of the information?
ROSS: Yeah.
REGINA: And it's fair
to note here, too,
that in your own library, your
beautiful, beautiful library
in Sedona, Arizona, World
Research Foundation,
you, too, have some
original works of Goethe.
ROSS: Yes.
REGINA: And also Paracelsus.
And I do want to add,
because one thing
I wanted to accomplish
on the show today
is to be empowering people.
So when I say, I could
feel these energies,
I could pick things
up from books,
I want everybody to
understand, so can they.
It's a matter of people
understanding they can do it.
Hopefully, we'll get into
it a little bit later.
REGINA: No, we're going to.
ROSS: --with the three keys.
REGINA: Want to hear the
rest of this story first.
So let's go back.
Now, you're sleeping there
and stuff starts happening.
ROSS: Yes.
REGINA: Let's talk
about some of it.
ROSS: Well, some of the things
where I was really journeying,
and I-- of course, you're
aware of a book on dreams.
I've been guided by dreams
since I was 23 years old.
I'm 73, so that makes 50 years.
And in those dreams,
taken different places.
But while I was there, it
was kind of interdimensional,
because that's who
this individual was.
And the environment, the place,
the castle, the vibrations
were really set up to elicit
experiences like that.
And--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
REGINA MEREDITH: Yeah,
staying in the home overnight.
STEVEN ROSS: Yes, I mean,
it was very profound.
But I was picking up a lot
of the Paracelsian concepts,
even though Paracelsus lived
late 1400s, middle 1500s.
Why?
Because that energy
was permeating place.
And it's good for the
listeners to understand.
Environment is everything.
Vibrations permeate
environments,
which is why this alchemist
was a great alchemist.
But he was able to do even
more because the environment is
conducive.
So if we want to do
beautiful things,
it would help if we have
a beautiful environment.
REGINA MEREDITH: What you do--
beauty is very high.
STEVEN ROSS: Beauty
is very important,
as you know, in my life and
what we share with individuals.
And while we may have a library,
I always encourage people,
have a spot in your house that
just is so high in vibrations.
But it doesn't necessarily need
to have all kinds of statues
and whatever.
It can.
But if you have
beautiful thoughts--
if you permeate and
just say, in this spot,
I'm not going to think or talk
about politics or religion
or negativity, I am just
going to enliven this area
with beauty--
it will grow.
It will become more powerful.
The Paracelsian the
concept is you resonate.
As above, so below.
We have within us
these parts of us
that resonate with the cosmos.
So if we think about beauty,
we can draw all the beauty that
exists in our geographical area,
in our state, in the country,
in the world, in the universe.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
We can concentrate
it into our space.
STEVEN ROSS: Correct.
So getting back to
the castle, being
in that kind of
environment, immersed--
and I don't think it was an
accident it was three days.
There's a lot in literature
about three days.
REGINA MEREDITH: Triplets.
STEVEN ROSS: Yup.
So those days allowed me to
get into this incredible space.
Everywhere I looked-- and
here was the baroness.
Of course, I saw her frequently.
We couldn't communicate, but
she was smiling all the time.
REGINA MEREDITH: She's a
beautiful little thing, just
a beautiful little flower.
STEVEN ROSS: Yes.
And when she finally passed
about six or seven years later,
the state where she lived really
confiscated all of the library,
because those were archival
books and treasures.
REGINA MEREDITH: I
was going to ask you.
So that stuff's gone.
STEVEN ROSS: It's gone
into a place where
it's a little bit harder.
Although, again, not everybody
could go into the castle.
REGINA MEREDITH: Right.
STEVEN ROSS: But when
materials like this
disappear into universities
or government locations,
you don't always
have access to it.
And that becomes a shame.
REGINA MEREDITH: Which is
why the amount of dedication
you've had to putting into
keeping your library together,
so people can come and see
all of this displayed in one
place in peace is amazing.
But so it's gone now.
But so let's talk about the
baron reaching out toward you.
STEVEN ROSS: Yes.
Well, after my experience
in his office, we decided--
Karl, Heidi, and I--
I needed to go back to Stuttgart
to get my bearings again.
And then we would proceed
throughout Europe.
Well, I go back
that evening, and I
was staying in Karl's house.
And Karl had actually
like a three-story house
with an attic.
So that night-- the
attic was really nice.
I was staying up there.
And in the middle of the
night, I hear footsteps.
And I said--
REGINA MEREDITH: Who goes there?
STEVEN ROSS: Yeah,
who goes there?
What?
And I heard, "von
Bernus is here."
And I thought, whoa,
because I don't--
I'm fully awake when I'm awake.
He was there, and
I couldn't wait.
So the next morning,
I call Heidi,
and I go, Heidi, Heidi,
please call the baroness.
Tell her what happened.
30 minutes later, Heidi gets
back, and she's laughing.
She goes, Elsa von
Bernus-- she already knew.
She said, Steven visited
my husband in his office.
So my husband decided to
visit Steven where he was.
REGINA MEREDITH: So she knew
about that before the call?
STEVEN ROSS: She did.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yeah.
STEVEN ROSS: And what
did I get out of it?
The continuation of life.
That's already a premise
in my philosophy.
I believe very strongly in that.
But that was made
very, very evident.
He visited me.
I decided to visit Steven.
So I said, yes, it
was very profound.
REGINA MEREDITH: I love it.
And so as we go through
this, in some of his--
some of the
alchemical information
you're most permeated
with in this lifetime
is that of Paracelsus.
And so I would like us to
be able to go into that
a little bit now because I see
you brought along something
here.
STEVEN ROSS: Yes, so--
REGINA MEREDITH: A little gift.
Let's put it toward the front.
STEVEN ROSS: Rather than
just being a talking head,
I wanted to have something
here, something tangible.
Paracelsus said the key to all
of the acts of the disciples,
the key to all manifestations,
all materializations,
is not by some sort
of language, not sort
of gyrations, not symbols.
Three things-- imagination,
faith, and will.
You must imagine what you
would like to manifest
or have happen.
You must know that it is going
to happen and have the will
to continue on the course
until it actually manifests.
Now he said that in the--
probably around 1510, 1515.
But that has been passed down
for a very, very long time.
Everybody has access.
This is what, again,
I was so happy to be
on this show is to point
out to people that we all
have these abilities within us.
We don't necessarily
need to have gurus
or go to special places
or have endless courses
or go to six-level courses.
Those are just three words, but
they're very, very powerful.
REGINA MEREDITH:
They're very powerful.
And this goes far beyond
some of the programs we've
been exposed to, like
"The Secret" and "How
to Get What You Want in Life."
No, this is a very high
order of application
of these three things.
And I think it's
really important
that you tell us about that and
clarify what that even means.
STEVEN ROSS: When you
really think-- now,
imagination today
has a connotation--
oh, you just imagine.
The person just imagined that.
It's not really real.
But that is not what
the ancients conceived.
Imagination, when you go
back to the times of Plato
and Pythagoras--
500 BC, 300 BC--
the greatest gift given to
humanity is imagination.
Now jump forward to people
like Albert Einstein.
With imagination, there
are no boundaries.
With imagination,
you can go anywhere.
Imagination is
very, very powerful.
Now many, many years ago, I
read one of my greatest sources
of collecting.
And in that newspaper, which
some people would call a "rag,"
it talked about if
you want to dream
about skiing, just jam your
imagination, jam your reading.
"The National
Enquirer" had this.
You can have skiing in
your dreams all night.
That is jamming this conduit,
this imagination conduit.
But when we clear it out, when
we allow it to do what it does,
we can go anywhere.
We can travel to the
ends of the world.
And the ancient said, we
don't need to go into space.
This was obviously
before spaceships.
We can go because our
imagination takes us there.
So using the imagination,
being complete
in what you might
want to manifest--
you want to manifest
whatever it is.
Maybe it's loaves of bread.
Maybe that individual reached
that state so highly, so
proficiently,
whatever is imagined
will manifest when
you absolutely know.
But now it goes back
to trust, Regina.
REGINA MEREDITH: It does, and
trust then leads in to faith.
And let's talk about the trust.
But I think for a
moment, oftentimes
because of society
and what we've
been taught institutionally,
we have a great limitation put
on our imagination.
And this is part of that
illness of society today
is that lack of true, profound,
from-the-soul imagination.
STEVEN ROSS: Yes.
Well, most of the
things we have,
people are put into a box.
REGINA MEREDITH: Right.
STEVEN ROSS: You
can only do this.
You can only do that if
this is your background.
And people are believing
that to the extent
that they don't
trust themselves.
And it's going back to
trust and the faith.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
STEVEN ROSS: If people
understood-- and I know
we were going to
get to this later,
but I'm going to
kind of jump to it.
REGINA MEREDITH: Go for it.
STEVEN ROSS: Good.
You're so sweet.
REGINA MEREDITH:
I'm just following.
STEVEN ROSS: When
is enough enough?
REGINA MEREDITH: Big question.
STEVEN ROSS: We're
not smart enough,
not handsome enough,
not pretty enough,
don't have enough money.
The billionaires--
REGINA MEREDITH: Don't
have enough hair.
STEVEN ROSS: Don't
That's right.
When is enough enough, where
people will be content?
The billionaires don't
have enough billions.
They're always striving.
They're always looking for more
because who's more powerful?
Who's faster?
Who's stronger?
All of our competitions.
Hey, I have a sports background.
I understand.
But we've been locked
into not thinking
we're good enough who we
are, where we are, right now.
That is the strongest message I
want to leave with your viewers
today.
They are enough right now.
We are all exactly
where we should be.
And the people that we idolize,
the people on TV and the movie
stars and even the speakers
and the people who said,
hey, I transcribed those
chicken scratches on the wall,
and it means this and
that, and you sit and go,
wow, that person's really smart.
I wish I was that smart.
If you really see the lives
of some of these people today,
they're going through the
same thing everybody else is.
REGINA MEREDITH: I see
a lot of their lives
and, yeah, they're going through
the same thing as everybody
else.
STEVEN ROSS: Exactly.
So my point of all this is,
believe that you are enough,
that you are right,
and you're good.
And keys like this-- the
imagination, faith, and will--
you don't need to take a
million courses to learn this.
REGINA MEREDITH: No, not at all.
The truth's paths are usually
very simple, but not always
easy.
STEVEN ROSS: Yes.
REGINA MEREDITH: And
so in determining that,
there has to be a more
direct path for someone
understanding what is enough.
And that gets down to
understanding your true values
in life-- true
values, if we still
have any besides consumerism,
which has been shattered.
The whole COVID
thing and that era
has shattered consumerism
in certain ways.
STEVEN ROSS: Yes.
REGINA MEREDITH: It's been
fascinating to watch how people
respond where you cannot
have instant gratification.
STEVEN ROSS: Yes.
REGINA MEREDITH: You can't just
go buy the car in the color
you want when you want,
or even a toaster,
because of the
shortage of these--
the electronic chips.
STEVEN ROSS: But
maybe that's just
part of the reason
this happened.
REGINA MEREDITH: I think so.
There is something
in it, where, OK,
if that's not where
you're going to get
your satisfaction
from in this crazed
last 50 years of consumerism--
pause-- what does matter?
STEVEN ROSS: Yes.
REGINA MEREDITH: And so I
would like you to share with us
how you feel if you
were talking to someone
and guiding, coaching them,
because you're a good coach.
How do you determine what
your true values are so
that you can determine
when enough is enough?
STEVEN ROSS: Well,
that is the question
I would ask the individual.
What are you striving for?
What are you looking
to reach or to achieve
by going to a million
psychics or going
to all these conferences?
And I don't want to say at
any time anything is bad.
But that's how I would
begin with someone.
What are you expecting
to find there?
What will show you
that you have reached
what you're looking for?
Most of the time, the person
will go, I don't know.
I just want to learn.
OK, well, when would
that reach a point
where you could be satisfied?
What will make you happy?
What will make you feel content?
And then say to somebody,
have you reached that state?
What makes you feel good?
Now one thing that I
will share with people--
how many people will say, if
they are involved in something
beautiful, or if they are
looking at something beautiful,
I want more of that?
No.
You're looking at a
beautiful picture.
You're looking at
a beautiful scene.
You're taken into that beauty.
You don't sit there and go--
REGINA MEREDITH: I want more.
STEVEN ROSS: I wanted
it more intensified.
REGINA MEREDITH:
Yeah, no, that's
true, because you're having
a fulfilling experience.
STEVEN ROSS: Exactly.
So somebody needs
to determine what
is going to make you
satisfied and fulfilled.
Now that kind of shakes
people to their foundation.
They go, whoa, I just have
never thought about that.
But I then would wait.
As Paracelsus said, if you
want to learn about any herb,
flower, tree, individual,
sit humbly, quietly
in front of them.
Don't think and just listen.
So normally what I
do in that situation
is just wait to hear what
the person's inner self is
feeding back to
me at that moment
because we've stirred the pot.
And in stirring that, they--
I'm not going into them.
They are releasing.
They are sending out vibrations.
Their higher self is
sending out energy.
And then for that particular
person, I can say,
didn't this particular
event give you pleasure?
And they go, yes.
Well, why aren't you
doing more of that?
Well, because people
say I should be--
REGINA MEREDITH:
You're not big on the S
word, the "should" word.
STEVEN ROSS: Exactly.
Now here's one of the
greatest quotes of Paracelsus.
"Do not belong to another
when you can be your own."
And if people allowed
that to really resonate--
"Do not belong to another
when you can be your own."
REGINA MEREDITH: Well,
a bumper-sticker version
of that today is, "You
might as well be yourself
because everyone else is taken."
STEVEN ROSS: That's a good one.
REGINA MEREDITH: So talk
about the profundity
of what that actually means.
STEVEN ROSS: It is having
the faith and trust
in your own self that who
you are and what you're doing
is right and is good.
And my belief is we are
always put in the places
where we need to be and
have the experiences that we
need to have.
If an individual is always
looking at somebody else--
why can't I be like them?
Why can't I have that?
A person is not realizing that
there's other dynamics involved
with those people also.
And you had mentioned
earlier, if people really
knew the lives that
some of these superstars
are going through--
REGINA MEREDITH: They
would not choose that.
STEVEN ROSS: That's
exactly right.
REGINA MEREDITH: And
meanwhile, you're
dispersing all your
energy, projecting it
onto someone else, and
amassing none of this
for your own betterment.
STEVEN ROSS: Yes.
And so this is the big message.
Be confident in yourself.
Trust yourself.
And know you are unique.
You are exactly
where you should be.
And you have unlimited
capabilities.
Too many people feel--
and, again, getting back to the
imagination, faith, and will--
they can't do it.
I'm here to tell
people they can.
I started off-- you and I
joke a lot about, Steven,
you have all these
things happen.
But I was extremely shy.
I was so shy growing
up, during my day,
you would call the operator,
or you would dial a number,
and the operator would say,
that number's been changed.
The new number is--
I was so shy, I didn't even
call the information operator,
because I didn't like to talk.
I was very shy.
But as I progressed,
one thing I always
did, if something came into
my mind, I just did it.
I would follow it through.
So it's a matter of
following through
with the things that come.
How many of your
audience go, you know,
I thought about that invention
three years before it came out.
REGINA MEREDITH: Right.
STEVEN ROSS: Well, did
somebody follow through?
So it is a matter of following
through, trusting the self.
One does not have to go and
stay in an alchemist's castle.
It's dramatic enough
to get me on your show
to share with your audience
that anything in this world
can happen.
REGINA MEREDITH: And now we
have the application of will
because will can often be
abused and misused as well
as used correctly.
So let's talk about the
correct use of will,
compared to what we often do.
STEVEN ROSS: Well, to me, the
will is staying the course.
For me, will means that you must
give things time to manifest.
So the will means I know
it is going to happen.
Now I stay the course
until it manifests visibly.
People don't realize that
what you're imagining exists.
REGINA MEREDITH: It
already exists, and then
phased off only this much
from the dimension we're in.
STEVEN ROSS: Exactly.
REGINA MEREDITH: It exists.
REGINA MEREDITH:
It's waiting to drop
into our third-dimensional
physical reality.
STEVEN ROSS: So what's
going to make that happen?
Knowing, realizing your intent.
And what's going to
help more is when
it's going to benefit the
most amount of people.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
STEVEN ROSS: That is the
little caveat on here.
I can imagine, oh, I
want to be powerful
and control everything.
Well, that may
not happen for you
in this metaphysical
spiritual way.
But it will happen
if your intent
is to assist, to help people,
to bring beauty into the world,
because then the spiritual realm
will kick in their energy that
will help things manifest.
REGINA MEREDITH: I couldn't
agree more, Steven.
And I've noticed that
certainly throughout my life,
is when something-- when
I touch with something
and think, oh, this would
be a worthy project,
and it has that element to
it, where this is information
that needs to come through now.
People need to have a
deeper understanding.
You know, angels'
wings start flapping.
Everything falls into place.
I don't really have to do a lot.
And it does start--
the train starts leaving
the station in a good way,
with me on it.
STEVEN ROSS: Right.
And I would hope that people
realize you are the star.
I'm on your show.
And people shouldn't
just believe,
oh, it only happens
to those people.
REGINA MEREDITH: No,
no, no, no this happens.
I see it when people have
what you're talking about--
this identification and passion
about whatever this thing is,
and especially if it serves.
And they're not doing
it to serve their ego.
STEVEN ROSS: Yes.
REGINA MEREDITH: This is
a big component of it.
A lot of people
think, no, I want
to be better known for this.
No, this is important if
it has value to humanity.
To be better known part
does not have value
to humanity in the way
we're talking about.
STEVEN ROSS: About
a week ago, there
was a story about
a football player
who has been very successful--
NFL pro-- who called
9-1-1 and was looking--
he said he was going
to commit suicide.
My point of that is that,
again, what we think
people's actual lives are--
the athletes, the movie stars--
is very, very different
than what people imagine.
And I wish that people
could understand
that as opposed to what we
see on every TV commercial.
You got to look thin.
You have to have this.
You got to have this body.
I'm working my exercise bike.
It's this competitive, nonstop,
trying to get to a place-- yes,
trying to get to a place
where we're not right now.
Why not just look at
where you are right now
and say, wow, this is great?
But that's being in the moment.
That's been totally
in the moment.
REGINA MEREDITH: So
to me, that is one
of the travesties of humanity.
And it's a travesty of
the media in general--
that it's perpetuating
this season of discontent
in everyone all the
time, because, eh, fa-la,
there's a product.
There's a service.
There's a person on
the other side that
will cure that for you, right?
And so left-- really,
never encouraged
to take time and just be with
ourselves and our own thoughts
and let them take
us where they will.
And I'd like you to talk
about that for a moment
because that can start
feeding into the imagination
to begin with if you
get some quiet time.
STEVEN ROSS: Well,
I'd like to share
with your audience two things.
What makes me happy?
Well, when my checkbook balances
at the end of the month,
I'm ecstatic.
REGINA MEREDITH: There you go.
STEVEN ROSS: Now
I'm a guy who lives
in castles for three days.
I'm a guy who has
great adventures.
But you know what
makes me happy?
My checkbook balances.
REGINA MEREDITH: Steven,
I have to tell you--
you know how many
people I've interviewed.
And some of them have
gotten out there and made it
onto mainstream media,
even, and documentaries
have been done about.
But that's the one
thing I hear most often.
This kind of work
off the beaten path
is not richly rewarded
financially always.
And people don't understand
these people struggle
alongside them with
the same things.
But the difference is you
are doing the thing you're
born to do and love.
They're doing the thing
they're born to do and love.
So we all have to struggle
in one way or another.
So why not start moving that
direction in our own lives?
STEVEN ROSS: Yes.
And people are going
to find that it
makes life more enjoyable.
Before I got into
esoterics and philosophy,
I was a sprinter
at my university.
And one thing--
I was running at
a level that there
were some very good athletes.
In fact, one of my races, the
world record for 100-yard dash
was tied.
It was the worst
defeat I had ever had.
I was three yards behind.
But my coach runs
up to me and goes,
wow, you broke
our school record!
And I go, what did that guy run?
And he goes-- they
announced the time.
And I go, hmm, that
was a world record.
But my feeling was
if I ran faster
than I did before, I was
content, even though, quote,
"I'd lost."
REGINA MEREDITH: Right.
STEVEN ROSS: I couldn't
have gone any faster
than I did that day.
And so my point of this is
start with the little things
to be content with.
You asked earlier if somebody
comes for counseling.
I would ask them, again,
what makes you happy?
REGINA MEREDITH: That's it.
And the thing is, this journey
called life, of which I believe
we-- is a cycle of life.
We have many, and it continues.
Each time, we pick up
some grace, some beauty,
some information along the way--
stumble a little bit, too.
But the whole notion that
we're here for something maybe
simple.
Like maybe we're here
to help rescue dogs who
have lost their homes.
That's a beautiful thing.
Look at what a little canine
critter adds to our lives--
to dedicate yourself
to caring for your dog
or caring for dogs in a more
public sense, all the way up
through someone like you,
creating this library
and being able to help people
find their purpose in life,
and even connect with the
whisperings of the soul.
And everything in between
is valuable and beautiful.
And we just throw ourselves
in front of the bus
all the time, thinking
we're not enough.
STEVEN ROSS: We can
continue striving.
And again, when
is enough enough?
It seems so simple,
those two little words.
But if people really got
themselves into that thought,
do you know--
of course, there would be
less prescriptions used.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
STEVEN ROSS: But not everybody
wants less prescriptions used.
The idea is there is
a simplicity to life--
the simplicity of these
three words that could
manifest great things for
people, the simplicity of love
and beauty and contentment.
People talk about that.
But I'm just going to go
out on a limb here and say
the majority of the very
well-known people that make all
these circuits--
they are not living the
things that they talk about.
REGINA MEREDITH: That is true.
I will say that.
STEVEN ROSS: They
talk good stories.
Their lives are a mess.
They can talk about calmness.
And when you meet
them, they're sometimes
bouncing off the walls if
their ego isn't big enough.
The idea is it's just
not the right message.
Why can't we just go
back to the simple?
If somebody says, you want
enlightenment, go to Tibet.
Meditate for 10 years, and
you're going to reach nirvana.
That's true.
But what were the
Transcendentalists doing?
They were hugging a tree and
getting cosmic consciousness.
So there are easier
ways to do these things.
And I think they're
just as much fun.
REGINA MEREDITH: Absolutely.
STEVEN ROSS: Maybe people
will say, well, no, no,
the only way I'm
going to get a--
this brings us back
to no pain, no gain.
Means you have to struggle.
REGINA MEREDITH: Suffer.
STEVEN ROSS: And-- oh, not that.
REGINA MEREDITH: Now, I'm
not a fan of suffering.
STEVEN ROSS: No.
REGINA MEREDITH: I
do not think that it
is an obligatory element
to walk the Earth.
STEVEN ROSS: Right.
So what are people
going to get out
of our sharing today of real--
I can take this and use it?
I would say the
most important thing
is be content with what you
have and realize who you are
and that you are as great
as anybody else walking
on this planet.
Nobody has any more access
to wisdom than you do.
They may have uncovered
a little bit more.
They don't give it to you.
You already have it.
It's up to us to just
kind of relax and allow
it to manifest in our presence.
How?
By beauty.
Plato's banquet on
love talked about how
to reach the highest
stages of love.
The same thing goes with beauty.
Once we begin to
understand-- why can't I
take that feeling
that I had looking
at that beautiful picture,
and why not understand
that I'm living in this
beautiful world with access
to all of this?
Understand that we do
have beauty all around us,
and we will become beautiful.
We're back to my
opening statement
about environment is everything.
What was the castle?
The castle was a
perfect environment.
What makes the supreme
healers on the planet?
Is it just their
energy, or is it
that they create an environment
where you and I believe
we are going to get healed?
REGINA MEREDITH: Right,
right, it supports them.
And this is something that
you have held as a core
to your being your whole life.
STEVEN ROSS: Yes.
REGINA MEREDITH: And
as a result of that,
you have been able to have,
quote, "magical things happen,"
have access to all this
wonderful stuff, have learned
the keys and the
secrets to healing,
which you have helped many,
many people heal themselves.
All of this-- and
I think, in part,
because you have created this.
And I've been in your home.
I've been in your library.
You have created this
environment of absolute beauty,
from the thoughts down to
the objects in the house.
And as you say, it can
be the tiniest space.
STEVEN ROSS: Right.
REGINA MEREDITH: We all have
the power to create beauty.
It starts with this.
STEVEN ROSS: Yes.
REGINA MEREDITH: So final
thought before we sign off,
Steven.
STEVEN ROSS: Our
time is almost up?
Oh, my gosh.
I think my final thought
has been my thoughts
all the way through--
to tell people they are
love, they are beauty,
they are so unique.
Why not share their love
and beauty with others?
Because no one else can
share your love and beauty
like you do or like I do.
To be content and
know that we are
each unlimited in our potential.
We're exactly where
we should be, and not
keep trying to gather
more and more and more.
REGINA MEREDITH:
Couldn't agree more.
And to have the
boldness to even think--
shocking how many times people
won't even think a new thought.
Like, oh, no.
That won't come true.
No, that's frivolous.
To have the boldness to even
think a new thought, especially
if it's something that attends
to beauty of some kind.
Think a new thought
which can let and lead
to an imaginal type of
creation of something.
STEVEN ROSS: Trust, trust,
trust, trust yourself.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
Yes.
STEVEN ROSS: Thank you.
REGINA MEREDITH: Thank
you so much for that,
because a lot of people
need it right now, Steven.
We're all thinking we're not
enough, especially after, yeah,
a year and a half,
two years of COVID
and picking up that,
on average, 29 pounds.
Everybody's beating
themselves up-- lethargy.
So this is a really good
time to hear this message.
And I love you.
It's so good to see
you in the flesh again.
STEVEN ROSS: Thanks.
I love you, and take care.
REGINA MEREDITH:
Thank you, Steven.
As always, I'm grateful
for our time with Steven.
If you want to reach
out to him, you
can go to WRF, World
Research Foundation, dot org.
And what a treasure trove,
including his own books there,
which you'll have access to.
And can they buy
them on Amazon now?
STEVEN ROSS: I have
some, but my books
are on lesscomplicated.net.
REGINA MEREDITH:
lesscomplicated.net.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[CLOSING MUSIC BUMPER]